SSL Certs - Replace on Existing (#853)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/administration/pages/ssl-certs.adoc

[[ssl-certs]]
= SSL Certificates

{productname} uses SSL certificates to ensure that clients are registered to the correct server.

> The host name of the SSL keys and certificates must match the fully qualified host name of the client system you deploy them on.

Author: This is a really good explanation, I've added it to the concept at the top of the section.

[[ssl-certs]]
= SSL Certificates

{productname} uses SSL certificates to ensure that clients are registered to the correct server.

When you create an SSL certificate for your server, the certificate includes the host name of the server it is associated with.
The certificate is then deployed on the server, and when clients attempt to connect, they check the certificate details.
If the certificate contains the name of the server they are attempting to connect to, the connection will be successful.
The client will also check if the certificate has been signed by a trusted certificate authority.

> By default, {productname} uses a self-signed certificate.

Reviewer: Found this while google for `self-signed certificate`:

`In cryptography and computer security, a self-signed certificate is a certificate that is not signed by a certificate authority (CA). `

This means SUSE Manager is **not** using this. We generate a CA and sign our server certificate with it.

Author: But we're not a certificate authority ... ?

Reviewer: Seems I understood self-signed different to what people outside think it is. Maybe you can verify with wikipedia, etc. if there is a common understanding out there.

For me, self-signed is a certificate which is signed by itself and is at the same time CA and server certificate. This is something we cannot use at SUSE Manager.

But it seems that people also understand self-signed, as signed by an own PKI. You created your CA and use it to sign your own certificates with it. This is ok, and this is what we also do in the SUSE Manager setup procedure.
So here you are your own CA. 

So we need to differ between "internally" and "externally" generated certificates.

Author: OK, let me figure this out.

Author: I suspect the problem stems from definitions of a CA, not from definitions of a self-signed certificate. If you define a CA as any organisation that signs certificates, it's a bit murky. If a CA is an organisation that will perform research and verify a certificate for *other* organisations, then the difference becomes clear. A self-signed certificate is a certificate signed by the organisation that intends to use it (one website I looked at suggested that it was the same as approving your own passport application, which is oversimplified, but a good visual), and not by an external CA. Either way, the certificate must be signed, it's just a question of who does the signing, and under what authority.

Author: So now I would like to know what we mean when we say "custom" certificate, because the way we've used the term in this doc makes me think it's neither a self-signed cert, or one verified by a CA.

Author: And once I have the various certificate types clear in my head, I'm going to split this chapter, I think.

Reviewer: I think we need to distinguish between certificates generated by our tools or getting files from external. That external can be an own PKI from the infra team or a third party CA. But this does not matter in our case. 

We either generate the certs with out tools or we get the certificates and keys from somewhere else.

Now the question is: how to name this properly

Reviewer: Maybe: self generated(or SUSE Manager generated) vs. imported ?

By default, {productname} uses a self-signed certificate.
After you have completed the initial setup, you can replace the default certificate with a custom certificate.

> 

Reviewer 2: Because of back-ports (maybe) let's try avoid white-space changes as much as possible.  Esp. if we are not that sure whether we want to have 3 empty lines before procedure titles or not ;)

Author: I agree, trying to add some consistency. I thought we'd agreed on three lines before headings?

----

If you use bootstrap, remember to also update your bootstrap scripts to reflect the new certificate information.

== Replace Existing CA and Server Certificates

You can replace working certificates on an existing {productname} installation with a new third party certificate.
In this case, you can replace the old CA certificate RPM with the new one, and update the database.

.Procedure: Replacing Existing Certificates

> . On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, move the old certificate directory to a new location:

Reviewer 2: This is correct, but confusing (old - new - old) and in the end, you call the new directory old-something ;)
Suggestion (and remove the next lines):

```suggestion
. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, move the old certificate directory to a backup location:

----
mv /root/ssl-build /root/backup-ssl-build
----
```

I did not check whether `/root/old-ssl-build` occurs later on.

----

If you use bootstrap, remember to also update your bootstrap scripts to reflect the new certificate information.

> == Replace Existing CA and Server Certificates

Author: Yes, that was my assumption.

You can replace working certificates on an existing {productname} installation with a new third party certificate.
In this case, you can replace the old CA certificate RPM with the new one, and update the database.

> .Procedure: Replacing Existing Certificates

Author: I'm not sure, I really struggled to work this procedure out, honestly. It seems significantly different from the previous ones (and long, too!)

> .Procedure: Replacing Existing Certificates

Reviewer: I agree, that the procedure before is already very long. I will try to do a PR on top of this one and enhance this one with the missing pieces. After this we can have a look and decide what we want to do.

.Procedure: Replacing Existing Certificates

. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, move the old certificate directory to a backup location:
+
----
mv /root/ssl-build /root/old-ssl-build
----

. Generate a CA certificate RPM from the new certificate:
+
----
rhn-ssl-tool --gen-ca --rpm-only --dir="/root/ssl-build" --from-ca-cert=<Path_to_CA_Certificate>
----

. Generate a new server certificate RPM:
+
----
rhn-ssl-tool --gen-server --rpm-only --dir="/root/ssl-build" --from-server-key=<Server_Key_File> --from-server-cert=<Server_Cert_File>
----
+
This command might end with a warning that the server certificate request file could not be found.
This file is not required, but you can provide it, by copying it into the server directory as `server.csr`.
+
----
cp <Certificate_Request_File>.csr /root/ssl-build/<Server_Name>/server.csr
----
+
When you repeat the command to generate the server certificate RPM, the warning should not be shown anymore.

Now you have an ssl-build directory similar to the one generated by "Procedure: Creating New Certificates" from the chapter before.

> You can now continue with the "Procedure: Create Combined Certificate RPMs" from the "Create and Replace CA and Server Certificates" chapter.

Reviewer: @Loquacity @keichwa you are the asciidoc experts. I think there should be links to the sections. But I have no idea how to do it.
